README.md, before:

# TaskTracker (or, *Are you still on track?!*)

This repo contains the code for the paper [Are you still on track!? Catching LLM Task Drift with Activations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.00799)

Authors: Sahar Abdelnabi* and Aideen Fay* (joint first-author), Giovanni Cherubin, Ahmed Salem, Mario Fritz, and Andrew Paverd. 

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/microsoft/TaskTracker/blob/main/teaser.png" width="700">
</p>



----

## Content 
This repo contains: 
- [**Dataset construction**](#dataset-construction)
- [**Collecting activations**](#activation-generation)
    - Supported models at the moment are: Phi-3 3.8B, Mistral 7B, Llama-3 8B, Mixtral 8x7B, Llama-3 70B
- [**Training probes**](#training)
    - Linear probes
    - Metric learning probes
- Code for reproducing the [**Results and experiments**](#evaluation) in the paper:
    - ROC AUC of probes on test set
    - Metric learning probes distances per different conditions in the test set
    - Metric learning probes temporal distances per tokens in the poisoned sequences
    - t-SNE visualization of raw activations and learned embeddings
    - GPT-4 verifier (judge) for attack execution
- **Trained probes**
  - Linear probes
  - Triplet probes 
  
----

## Setup 

- `conda env create -f environment.yml`
- `cd TaskTracker`
- `pip install -e .`

---- 

## Dataset Construction 

- To access the already sampled dataset examples that we used for training and evaluation, please check: **TODO**

### Dependencies
- This repo contains the GPT-4 generated **triggers**, **trivia** questions and answers pairs, a **translated** subset of trivia questions and answers, **generic** NLP tasks, and attack prompts sourced from [BIPIA](https://github.com/microsoft/BIPIA) 
- The dataset construction scripts downloads used datasets (HotPotQA, SQuAD, Alpaca, Code Alpaca, WildChat, and others) from HuggingFace and/or hosting websites
- Some jailbreaks examples can be downloaded manually (URLs are provided in the corresponding notebooks for these cases)

### How to (skip if our dataset is directly used)
- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_training_dataset.ipynb` code used to sample training data:
  - Based on training split of `SQuAD` 
  - The combinations of primary tasks and secondary tasks can be changed via changing `args.orig_task` and `args.emb_task`
  - The location of secondary tasks can be changed via `args.embed_loc`
  - `task_tracker/dataset_creation/training_dataset_combinations.ipynb` shows an example of the different combinations of these arguments used to construct the training data
    
- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_clean_val.ipynb` code used to sample clean val data:
  - Based on validation split of `HotPotQA` and `SQuAD`
  - Primary tasks are either `QA` or a `Mix` of QA and generic NLP prompts

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_clean_val.ipynb` code used to sample clean test data:
  - Based on training split of `HotPotQA`
  - Primary tasks are either `QA` or a `Mix` of QA and generic NLP prompts

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_val.ipynb` code used to sample poisoned val data
    
- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_test.ipynb` code used to sample poisoned test data

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_test_other_variations.ipynb` code used to generate other variations of poisoned injections (variations of the trigger)

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_clean_test_spotlight.ipynb` code used to construct clean examples with spotlighting prompts 

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_test_translation_WildChat.ipynb` code used to construct examples from the WildChat dataset (clean examples containing instructions) and poisoned examples with translated instructions

### After generation/downloading 
- Edit the dataset files path in `task_tracker/config/models.py`
  
----
## Activation Generation 
- To access the already computed activations, please check: **TODO**

### Dependencies
- To generate activations for the dataset, the dataset files in `task_tracker/config/models.py` will be used (changed in dataset construction step) 
- Edit the activations directory path in `task_tracker/config/models.py` before generating the activations (or after downloading if the generation step is skipped) 
- Edit the HF cache directory path in `task_tracker/config/models.py`
  
```
# update paths to HF cache dir 
cache_dir = "/disk1/"
os.environ["TRANSFORMERS_CACHE"] = cache_dir
os.environ["HF_HOME"] = cache_dir

# update paths to where the activations would be stored 
activation_parent_dir = "/disk1/activations"

# update paths to where the dataset text files are stored 
text_dataset_parent_dir = "/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/dataset_sampling/dataset_sampled"
```
  
### How to (skip if downloading)
- `task_tracker/utils/data.py` contains the priming prompt we used to generate the activations, change if required to test other prompting setups
- To generate activations for a particular model specify the model required in `task_tracker/activations/generate.py` (from the set of models in `task_tracker/config/models.py`)
- If no priming prompt is needed, set `with_priming` to `False`
- Run `python generate.py`
  
```
# NOTE:
# Update the model name to the model you want to generate activations for (from models in task_tracker.config.models)
# Update with_priming to False if you want to generate activations without priming
# Update paths in task_tracker.config.models of cache_dir (HF cache dir), activation_parent_dir (the output of activations), and text_dataset_parent_dir (dir of dataset text files)

model_name: str = "mistral"
with_priming: bool = True


model = models[model_name]
```

### After generation 
- **(skip if downloading)** The training and evaluation scripts expect a list of `.pt` files of training, val clean, val test, test clean, and test splits. Please refer to files in `task_tracker/data/` for examples
- For **both generating and downloading options**, change the path of activations files lists (`DATA_LISTS`) in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py` (these are currently in `task_tracker/data`)

```
# Directory contain text files of activations lists
DATA_LISTS = "/share/projects/TaskTracker/data"
```
  
----
## Training 
- The trained probes are provided in the repo
- To train your own probes please follow the following steps 

### Dependencies
- The training scripts need:
  - The dataset text files specified in `task_tracker/config/models.py` (in dataset creation step)
  - The activations files lists (`DATA_LISTS`) in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py` (in the activations step)
- **If training**: Change the path of the output directory (`MODEL_OUTPUT_DIR`) of triplet probes in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py`
```
# The output directory to store output models per epoch and the best running model
MODEL_OUTPUT_DIR =  '/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/output_dir'
```

### How to
- To train **linear probes**:
  - Specify the model required in `task_tracker/training/linear_probe/train_linear_model.py` from the set of models in (`task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py`)
  - run `python train_linear_model.py`
    ```
    MODEL = "llama3_70b"
    ```
    
- To train **metric learning (triplet) probes**:
  - Specify the model required in `task_tracker/training/triplet_probe/train_per_layer.py` from the set of models in (`task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py`)
  - Change output sub-directory name of the experiment
  - Change other hyperparams if required 
  - run `python train_per_layer.py`
    ```
    # change model name to the model you want 
    MODEL = 'mistral'
    ACTIVATIONS_DIR, ACTIVATIONS_VAL_DIR, ACTIVATION_FILE_LIST_DIR =\
        CONSTANTS_ALL_MODELS[MODEL]['ACTIVATIONS_DIR'], CONSTANTS_ALL_MODELS[MODEL]['ACTIVATIONS_VAL_DIR'], CONSTANTS_ALL_MODELS[MODEL]['ACTIVATION_FILE_LIST_DIR']
    
    print('== Running latest file ==')
    # Configuration settings
    config = {
        'model': MODEL,
        'activations': ACTIVATIONS_DIR,
        'activations_ood': ACTIVATIONS_VAL_DIR,
        'ood_poisoned_file': OOD_POISONED_FILE, 
        'exp_name': 'mistral_test', #update with the required output dir name 
        'margin': 0.3,
        'epochs': 6,
        'num_layers': (0,5), #start to end layer (both inclusive)
        'files_chunk': 10,
        'batch_size': 2500, # batch size used for triplet mining 
        'learning_rate': 0.0005,
        'restart': False,  # Set to True if restarting from a checkpoint
        'feature_dim' : 275,
        'pool_first_layer': 5 if MODEL == 'llama3_70b' else 3, #llama3 has larger pool layer to reduce its dim faster
        'dropout' : 0.5,
        'check_each' : 50,
        'conv': True,
        'layer_norm': False,
        'delay_lr_factor': 0.95,
        'delay_lr_step': 800
    }
    ```
  
### After training/downloading models 
- Change file paths in of trained models directories in `task_tracker/experiments_outputs.py`
```
#Constants for parent dir of experiments outputs 
linear_probe_out_parent_dir = "/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/linear_probing/training"
triplet_probe_out_parent_dir = "/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/output_dir"
```

----
## Evaluation 
- Scripts to evaluate models and reproduce our experiments 

### Dependencies 
- Evaluation scripts need:
  - The dataset text files specified in `task_tracker/config/models.py` (in dataset creation step)
  - The activations files lists (`DATA_LISTS`) in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py` (in the activations step)
  - The paths of trained models in `task_tracker/experiments_outputs.py` (in the training step)
### How to
- **visualize** activations:
  - `task_tracker/evaluation/visualizations/tsne_raw_activations.ipynb` contains the script to visualize the task activations residual for raw activations. Change the model if required.
    ```
    from task_tracker.training.dataset import ActivationsDatasetDynamicPrimaryText
    from task_tracker.training.utils.constants import TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL, TEST_CLEAN_FILES_PER_MODEL, TEST_POISONED_FILES_PER_MODEL
    
    
    MODEL = 'mistral'
    BATCH_SIZE = 256
    TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR = TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL[MODEL]
    FILES_CHUNCK = 10 
    LAYERS = 80 if MODEL == 'llama3_70b' else 32
    ```
    
- GPT-4 **verifier**:
  - If required, we provide scripts to get the response of models to the attack prompts to simulate attacks.
    - run `task_tracker/evaluation/verifier/get_model_responses.py` to get models' responses. Change the model if required.
    ```
    #change to path of output files (to be generated)
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import MODELS_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL
    
    #change to path of text files and cache dirs
    from task_tracker.config.models import data, models, cache_dir
    
    
    POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
    CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
    
    TOKEN = '' #add HF token 
    
    
    START_IDX = 0 
    END_IDX = -1 # -1 will save for everything 
    MODEL = 'mistral' ##change this to something else when needed
    ```
  - After getting responses:
    - run the verifier via `task_tracker/evaluation/verifier/gpt4_judge_parallel_calls.py`. Change the model and paths if required. **Important:** this script parallelize the calls to the API. Watch out for the cost before proceeding with large datasets.
    - You will need Azure OpenAI credentials.
  - The results of responses and verifier of our experiments are provided in this repo under `task_tracker/dataset_creation/dataset_sampled`
    ```
    ## change the paths of output files 
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import MODELS_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL, VERIFIER_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL
    
    ## change the paths of dataset text files
    from task_tracker.config.models import data
    POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
    CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
    
    MODEL = 'llama3_8b' 
    MAX_THREADS = 60 #Change this if failure rate is too high 
    JUDGE_PROMPT_FILE = 'judge_prompt.txt' #Prompt to give to the judge 
    JUDGE_MODEL = 'gpt-4-no-filter' ##name of Azure model deployment 
    START_IDX = 0 
    END_IDX = -1
    AZURE_OPENAI_KEY = '' #add cred.
    AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT = ''
    ```
- **Linear** probe:
  - `task_tracker/evaluation/linear_probe/evaluate_linear_models.ipynb` runs the linear probes on test data. Change the model if required.
    ```
    #update constants in task_tracker.training.utils.constants and task_tracker.config.models
    from task_tracker.training.utils.constants import TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL,TEST_CLEAN_FILES_PER_MODEL,TEST_POISONED_FILES_PER_MODEL
    from task_tracker.training.dataset import ActivationsDatasetDynamicPrimaryText
    
    #update paths of trained models in task_tracker.experiments_outputs
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import LINEAR_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL
    
    
    FILES = 'test'
    MODEL = 'llama3_70b'
    ```

- **Triplet** probe:
  - **Prediction on test data**:   
    - `task_tracker/evaluation/triplet_probe/evaluate_triplet_models_test_data.ipynb` runs the triplet probe for the test data. Change the model if required. This will save the embeddings of examples in the model output dirs.
      
        ```
        from task_tracker.training.utils.constants import TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL,TEST_CLEAN_FILES_PER_MODEL,TEST_POISONED_FILES_PER_MODEL
        #update task_tracker.experiments_outputs with paths of trained models 
        from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL
        
        MODEL = 'llama3_70b'
        ```
    - **Next**, update the saved embeddings paths in `task_tracker/experiments_outputs.py`
      ```
      TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL = {
        'mistral' : {'path': triplet_probe_out_parent_dir + '/mistral_best', 
                     'num_layers': (17,31), 
                     'saved_embs_clean': 'clean_embeddings_20240429-133151.json' ,
                     'saved_embs_poisoned':  'poisoned_embeddings_20240429-134637.json'}
      }
      ```
  - **Distances per conditions**:
      - `task_tracker/evaluation/triplet_probe/distances_per_conditions.ipynb` loads the saved embeddings generated in the previous step and calculates distances per different conditions in the dataset. Also, it uses the output of the verifier.
      ```
      # update task_tracker.config.models for dataset text files paths 
    from task_tracker.config.models import data
    
    # update task_tracker.config.models for trained models, saved embs output dirs names, and verifier output paths 
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL, VERIFIER_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL
    
    POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
    CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
    ```
  - **Distances per tokens**:
    - `task_tracker/evaluation/triplet_probe/temporal_distances_per_tokens.ipynb` loads the test data text files and computes distances for a subset of examples per tokens to track distances before and after injections. Change the model if required
      ```
      from task_tracker.config.models import data, models, cache_dir
    
        #update task_tracker.experiments_outputs with paths of trained models 
        from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL
        
        os.environ["TRANSFORMERS_CACHE"] = cache_dir
        os.environ["HF_HOME"] = cache_dir
        
        POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
        CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
        
        MODEL = 'mistral' #change this to other models when needed 
        ```
    
----
  
## Citation 

- If you find our paper, dataset, or this repo helpful, please cite our paper:

``` 
@article{taskdrift2024,
  title={Are you still on track!? Catching LLM Task Drift with Activations},
  author={Sahar Abdelnabi and Aideen Fay and Giovanni Cherubin and Ahmed Salem and Mario Fritz and Andrew Paverd},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.00799},
  year={2024}
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add form for requesting data access

README.md, after:

# TaskTracker (or, *Are you still on track?!*)

This repo contains the code for the paper [Are you still on track!? Catching LLM Task Drift with Activations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.00799)

Authors: Sahar Abdelnabi* and Aideen Fay* (joint first-author), Giovanni Cherubin, Ahmed Salem, Mario Fritz, and Andrew Paverd. 

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/microsoft/TaskTracker/blob/main/teaser.png" width="700">
</p>


----

## Content 
This repo contains: 
- [**Request Access to Data**](#request-data)
- [**Dataset construction**](#dataset-construction)
- [**Collecting activations**](#activation-generation)
    - Supported models at the moment are: Phi-3 3.8B, Mistral 7B, Llama-3 8B, Mixtral 8x7B, Llama-3 70B
- [**Training probes**](#training)
    - Linear probes
    - Metric learning probes
- Code for reproducing the [**Results and experiments**](#evaluation) in the paper:
    - ROC AUC of probes on test set
    - Metric learning probes distances per different conditions in the test set
    - Metric learning probes temporal distances per tokens in the poisoned sequences
    - t-SNE visualization of raw activations and learned embeddings
    - GPT-4 verifier (judge) for attack execution
- **Trained probes**
  - Linear probes
  - Triplet probes 
  
----

## Request access to LLM activations and training data
To request access to the activation data we generated for simulating task drift, please fill out this [form](https://forms.microsoft.com/r/wXBfXQpuR2) and we will respond with a time-restricted download link.  

## Setup 

- `conda env create -f environment.yml`
- `cd TaskTracker`
- `pip install -e .`

---- 

## Dataset Construction 

- To access the already sampled dataset examples that we used for training and evaluation, please check: **TODO**

### Dependencies
- This repo contains the GPT-4 generated **triggers**, **trivia** questions and answers pairs, a **translated** subset of trivia questions and answers, **generic** NLP tasks, and attack prompts sourced from [BIPIA](https://github.com/microsoft/BIPIA) 
- The dataset construction scripts downloads used datasets (HotPotQA, SQuAD, Alpaca, Code Alpaca, WildChat, and others) from HuggingFace and/or hosting websites
- Some jailbreaks examples can be downloaded manually (URLs are provided in the corresponding notebooks for these cases)

### How to (skip if our dataset is directly used)
- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_training_dataset.ipynb` code used to sample training data:
  - Based on training split of `SQuAD` 
  - The combinations of primary tasks and secondary tasks can be changed via changing `args.orig_task` and `args.emb_task`
  - The location of secondary tasks can be changed via `args.embed_loc`
  - `task_tracker/dataset_creation/training_dataset_combinations.ipynb` shows an example of the different combinations of these arguments used to construct the training data
    
- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_clean_val.ipynb` code used to sample clean val data:
  - Based on validation split of `HotPotQA` and `SQuAD`
  - Primary tasks are either `QA` or a `Mix` of QA and generic NLP prompts

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_clean_val.ipynb` code used to sample clean test data:
  - Based on training split of `HotPotQA`
  - Primary tasks are either `QA` or a `Mix` of QA and generic NLP prompts

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_val.ipynb` code used to sample poisoned val data
    
- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_test.ipynb` code used to sample poisoned test data

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_test_other_variations.ipynb` code used to generate other variations of poisoned injections (variations of the trigger)

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_clean_test_spotlight.ipynb` code used to construct clean examples with spotlighting prompts 

- `task_tracker/dataset_creation/prepare_datasets_poisoned_test_translation_WildChat.ipynb` code used to construct examples from the WildChat dataset (clean examples containing instructions) and poisoned examples with translated instructions

### After generation/downloading 
- Edit the dataset files path in `task_tracker/config/models.py`
  
----
## Activation Generation 
- To access the already computed activations, please check: **TODO**

### Dependencies
- To generate activations for the dataset, the dataset files in `task_tracker/config/models.py` will be used (changed in dataset construction step) 
- Edit the activations directory path in `task_tracker/config/models.py` before generating the activations (or after downloading if the generation step is skipped) 
- Edit the HF cache directory path in `task_tracker/config/models.py`
  
```
# update paths to HF cache dir 
cache_dir = "/disk1/"
os.environ["TRANSFORMERS_CACHE"] = cache_dir
os.environ["HF_HOME"] = cache_dir

# update paths to where the activations would be stored 
activation_parent_dir = "/disk1/activations"

# update paths to where the dataset text files are stored 
text_dataset_parent_dir = "/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/dataset_sampling/dataset_sampled"
```
  
### How to (skip if downloading)
- `task_tracker/utils/data.py` contains the priming prompt we used to generate the activations, change if required to test other prompting setups
- To generate activations for a particular model specify the model required in `task_tracker/activations/generate.py` (from the set of models in `task_tracker/config/models.py`)
- If no priming prompt is needed, set `with_priming` to `False`
- Run `python generate.py`
  
```
# NOTE:
# Update the model name to the model you want to generate activations for (from models in task_tracker.config.models)
# Update with_priming to False if you want to generate activations without priming
# Update paths in task_tracker.config.models of cache_dir (HF cache dir), activation_parent_dir (the output of activations), and text_dataset_parent_dir (dir of dataset text files)

model_name: str = "mistral"
with_priming: bool = True


model = models[model_name]
```

### After generation 
- **(skip if downloading)** The training and evaluation scripts expect a list of `.pt` files of training, val clean, val test, test clean, and test splits. Please refer to files in `task_tracker/data/` for examples
- For **both generating and downloading options**, change the path of activations files lists (`DATA_LISTS`) in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py` (these are currently in `task_tracker/data`)

```
# Directory contain text files of activations lists
DATA_LISTS = "/share/projects/TaskTracker/data"
```
  
----
## Training 
- The trained probes are provided in the repo
- To train your own probes please follow the following steps 

### Dependencies
- The training scripts need:
  - The dataset text files specified in `task_tracker/config/models.py` (in dataset creation step)
  - The activations files lists (`DATA_LISTS`) in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py` (in the activations step)
- **If training**: Change the path of the output directory (`MODEL_OUTPUT_DIR`) of triplet probes in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py`
```
# The output directory to store output models per epoch and the best running model
MODEL_OUTPUT_DIR =  '/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/output_dir'
```

### How to
- To train **linear probes**:
  - Specify the model required in `task_tracker/training/linear_probe/train_linear_model.py` from the set of models in (`task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py`)
  - run `python train_linear_model.py`
    ```
    MODEL = "llama3_70b"
    ```
    
- To train **metric learning (triplet) probes**:
  - Specify the model required in `task_tracker/training/triplet_probe/train_per_layer.py` from the set of models in (`task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py`)
  - Change output sub-directory name of the experiment
  - Change other hyperparams if required 
  - run `python train_per_layer.py`
    ```
    # change model name to the model you want 
    MODEL = 'mistral'
    ACTIVATIONS_DIR, ACTIVATIONS_VAL_DIR, ACTIVATION_FILE_LIST_DIR =\
        CONSTANTS_ALL_MODELS[MODEL]['ACTIVATIONS_DIR'], CONSTANTS_ALL_MODELS[MODEL]['ACTIVATIONS_VAL_DIR'], CONSTANTS_ALL_MODELS[MODEL]['ACTIVATION_FILE_LIST_DIR']
    
    print('== Running latest file ==')
    # Configuration settings
    config = {
        'model': MODEL,
        'activations': ACTIVATIONS_DIR,
        'activations_ood': ACTIVATIONS_VAL_DIR,
        'ood_poisoned_file': OOD_POISONED_FILE, 
        'exp_name': 'mistral_test', #update with the required output dir name 
        'margin': 0.3,
        'epochs': 6,
        'num_layers': (0,5), #start to end layer (both inclusive)
        'files_chunk': 10,
        'batch_size': 2500, # batch size used for triplet mining 
        'learning_rate': 0.0005,
        'restart': False,  # Set to True if restarting from a checkpoint
        'feature_dim' : 275,
        'pool_first_layer': 5 if MODEL == 'llama3_70b' else 3, #llama3 has larger pool layer to reduce its dim faster
        'dropout' : 0.5,
        'check_each' : 50,
        'conv': True,
        'layer_norm': False,
        'delay_lr_factor': 0.95,
        'delay_lr_step': 800
    }
    ```
  
### After training/downloading models 
- Change file paths in of trained models directories in `task_tracker/experiments_outputs.py`
```
#Constants for parent dir of experiments outputs 
linear_probe_out_parent_dir = "/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/linear_probing/training"
triplet_probe_out_parent_dir = "/share/projects/jailbreak-activations/output_dir"
```

----
## Evaluation 
- Scripts to evaluate models and reproduce our experiments 

### Dependencies 
- Evaluation scripts need:
  - The dataset text files specified in `task_tracker/config/models.py` (in dataset creation step)
  - The activations files lists (`DATA_LISTS`) in `task_tracker/training/utils/constants.py` (in the activations step)
  - The paths of trained models in `task_tracker/experiments_outputs.py` (in the training step)
### How to
- **visualize** activations:
  - `task_tracker/evaluation/visualizations/tsne_raw_activations.ipynb` contains the script to visualize the task activations residual for raw activations. Change the model if required.
    ```
    from task_tracker.training.dataset import ActivationsDatasetDynamicPrimaryText
    from task_tracker.training.utils.constants import TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL, TEST_CLEAN_FILES_PER_MODEL, TEST_POISONED_FILES_PER_MODEL
    
    
    MODEL = 'mistral'
    BATCH_SIZE = 256
    TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR = TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL[MODEL]
    FILES_CHUNCK = 10 
    LAYERS = 80 if MODEL == 'llama3_70b' else 32
    ```
    
- GPT-4 **verifier**:
  - If required, we provide scripts to get the response of models to the attack prompts to simulate attacks.
    - run `task_tracker/evaluation/verifier/get_model_responses.py` to get models' responses. Change the model if required.
    ```
    #change to path of output files (to be generated)
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import MODELS_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL
    
    #change to path of text files and cache dirs
    from task_tracker.config.models import data, models, cache_dir
    
    
    POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
    CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
    
    TOKEN = '' #add HF token 
    
    
    START_IDX = 0 
    END_IDX = -1 # -1 will save for everything 
    MODEL = 'mistral' ##change this to something else when needed
    ```
  - After getting responses:
    - run the verifier via `task_tracker/evaluation/verifier/gpt4_judge_parallel_calls.py`. Change the model and paths if required. **Important:** this script parallelize the calls to the API. Watch out for the cost before proceeding with large datasets.
    - You will need Azure OpenAI credentials.
  - The results of responses and verifier of our experiments are provided in this repo under `task_tracker/dataset_creation/dataset_sampled`
    ```
    ## change the paths of output files 
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import MODELS_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL, VERIFIER_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL
    
    ## change the paths of dataset text files
    from task_tracker.config.models import data
    POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
    CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
    
    MODEL = 'llama3_8b' 
    MAX_THREADS = 60 #Change this if failure rate is too high 
    JUDGE_PROMPT_FILE = 'judge_prompt.txt' #Prompt to give to the judge 
    JUDGE_MODEL = 'gpt-4-no-filter' ##name of Azure model deployment 
    START_IDX = 0 
    END_IDX = -1
    AZURE_OPENAI_KEY = '' #add cred.
    AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT = ''
    ```
- **Linear** probe:
  - `task_tracker/evaluation/linear_probe/evaluate_linear_models.ipynb` runs the linear probes on test data. Change the model if required.
    ```
    #update constants in task_tracker.training.utils.constants and task_tracker.config.models
    from task_tracker.training.utils.constants import TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL,TEST_CLEAN_FILES_PER_MODEL,TEST_POISONED_FILES_PER_MODEL
    from task_tracker.training.dataset import ActivationsDatasetDynamicPrimaryText
    
    #update paths of trained models in task_tracker.experiments_outputs
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import LINEAR_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL
    
    
    FILES = 'test'
    MODEL = 'llama3_70b'
    ```

- **Triplet** probe:
  - **Prediction on test data**:   
    - `task_tracker/evaluation/triplet_probe/evaluate_triplet_models_test_data.ipynb` runs the triplet probe for the test data. Change the model if required. This will save the embeddings of examples in the model output dirs.
      
        ```
        from task_tracker.training.utils.constants import TEST_ACTIVATIONS_DIR_PER_MODEL,TEST_CLEAN_FILES_PER_MODEL,TEST_POISONED_FILES_PER_MODEL
        #update task_tracker.experiments_outputs with paths of trained models 
        from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL
        
        MODEL = 'llama3_70b'
        ```
    - **Next**, update the saved embeddings paths in `task_tracker/experiments_outputs.py`
      ```
      TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL = {
        'mistral' : {'path': triplet_probe_out_parent_dir + '/mistral_best', 
                     'num_layers': (17,31), 
                     'saved_embs_clean': 'clean_embeddings_20240429-133151.json' ,
                     'saved_embs_poisoned':  'poisoned_embeddings_20240429-134637.json'}
      }
      ```
  - **Distances per conditions**:
      - `task_tracker/evaluation/triplet_probe/distances_per_conditions.ipynb` loads the saved embeddings generated in the previous step and calculates distances per different conditions in the dataset. Also, it uses the output of the verifier.
      ```
      # update task_tracker.config.models for dataset text files paths 
    from task_tracker.config.models import data
    
    # update task_tracker.config.models for trained models, saved embs output dirs names, and verifier output paths 
    from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL, VERIFIER_RESPONSE_OUT_FILENAME_PER_MODEL
    
    POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
    CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
    ```
  - **Distances per tokens**:
    - `task_tracker/evaluation/triplet_probe/temporal_distances_per_tokens.ipynb` loads the test data text files and computes distances for a subset of examples per tokens to track distances before and after injections. Change the model if required
      ```
      from task_tracker.config.models import data, models, cache_dir
    
        #update task_tracker.experiments_outputs with paths of trained models 
        from task_tracker.experiments_outputs import TRIPLET_PROBES_PATHS_PER_MODEL
        
        os.environ["TRANSFORMERS_CACHE"] = cache_dir
        os.environ["HF_HOME"] = cache_dir
        
        POISONED_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_poisoned'] 
        CLEAN_TEST_DATASET_FILENAME = data['test_clean']
        
        MODEL = 'mistral' #change this to other models when needed 
        ```
    
----
  
## Citation 

- If you find our paper, dataset, or this repo helpful, please cite our paper:

``` 
@article{taskdrift2024,
  title={Are you still on track!? Catching LLM Task Drift with Activations},
  author={Sahar Abdelnabi and Aideen Fay and Giovanni Cherubin and Ahmed Salem and Mario Fritz and Andrew Paverd},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.00799},
  year={2024}
}
```
